Our first derivation
So we always start a derivation
by typing the word shell
Followed by the conclusion in
this case show not pee
It's important that you don't
start with a space
That will confuse carnap to no end and
nothing
will work for you whenever type of space
just
always the very first character on the
first line
to be that Capital ask for Joe not pee
On the next line you
need to indent because line
one says I'm going to
show or prove not p
And now line to is the first
line of my proof the first
thing I do on my way
to showing or proving not pee
Until I indent indicate that this is
something I'm
doing as part of that proof you can
indent with as many spaces or as few
spaces as you want one space is enough
8 spaces you can also indent
with a tab that will work
Only thing that you need to be sure
about is
you need to be sure that you are
consistent you
need your indentations to be the same on
every
line or else car is likely to get very
confused so my first premise if P then Q
And I'm going to type in
my second promise not Q
And now I need to figure out if
there are any rules that I can apply
Well
This is an opportunity to apply modus
tollens
my first premise online to is a
conditional
and my other Primus online 3 is the
negation of its consequent so I can
infer
the negation of its antecedent and
that's by
modus tollens from lines 2 and 3
I have now
completed my proof
The last thing I need to do to
finish this off is I need to enter
my qedn line-by-line explaining why what
I just
did counts as showing what I set out
to show in the reason why what I
just did counts as showing what I set
out to just show is because line 4
As not pee on it and not pee
was what I was trying to show
So I out Dent to the point
where I'm now back aligned up with
that capital S on the first line
And I am now entering the justifications
that
starts with a colon this is a direct
derivation so Dee Dee and I point the
line for where I got what I needed
And that's what the derivation looks
like it let
me break this in a few ways just
to show you what happens when it breaks
So I mentioned that it's important that
your indentations be consistent so
if I out Dent line 3 by just a space
you'll
see that it no longer is showing as
correct and over
here there are some error messages that
if you hover over
you can see it so here it says it looks
like
you're citing a line which is not in
your sub proof
If you're not you may need to tidy up
your proof
That's not the most transparent bit of
information
it'll make more sense to you after
you've
done more divisions but what I'm saying
is
that your indentations are messed up and
so it's confused about what's going on
It happens to it until also if I act do
this
right night out Dent by Master I
invented by an extra
step that's also going to cause car not
to break
Occasionally there are things you can
get away
with like if you just keep on out
Out dentyne more and
more but you never
Bring it whenever you keep on adding
more spaces with
each line rather than sometimes adding
more and sometimes nine
less than carnap will be okay with that
but it's
not going to look pretty. What you
should be doing
Another thing that sometimes people do
is they add a space
Between the colon and the rule and then
over here
we have this warning message and it just
says I
can't read that line there might be a
typo
It doesn't understand because it expects
the rule
name to come right after the colon
Another thing that people do is they
don't put any
space between the rule numbers at the
real name in
the line numbers and carnap is okay with
that
You can also replace the, between the
line
numbers with just a space that's fine
But if you don't put a, or a
space then it's going to be confused
It says look you're depending on
something that's later
on then your assertion what would they
mean is
your siding line 23 but you're online
for
So you can't do that
If you had a space there on the show
line
that would break things so those are the
ways
you can break things sometimes people
forget to out
sent their q.e.d. line and so then it
doesn't
actually finish up you need to get that
all
the way out to the same level as the